Puppeteer Editor pass (#1594)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/puppeteer/index.md

title: Puppeteer overview
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 11/17/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: devtools
keywords: microsoft edge, web development, developer, tools, automation, test
---
# Puppeteer overview

> [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev) is a [Node](https://nodejs.org) library that provides a high-level API to control Microsoft Edge using the [DevTools Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol).  Puppeteer launches [headless browsers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headless_browser) by default.  Headless browsers do not display a UI, so instead you must use the command line.  You can also configure Puppeteer to run full (non-headless) Microsoft Edge as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev) is a [Node](https://nodejs.org) library that provides a high-level API to control Microsoft Edge using the [DevTools Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol).  Puppeteer launches [headless browsers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Headless_browser) by default.  Headless browsers do not display a user interface (UI), so you must use the command line.  You can also configure Puppeteer to run full (non-headless) Microsoft Edge.
```

    ```javascript
    const puppeteer = require('puppeteer-core');
    
    (async () => {
      const browser = await puppeteer.launch({
        executablePath: 'C:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft\\Edge Dev\\Application\\msedge.exe'
      });
      const page = await browser.newPage();
      await page.goto('https://www.microsoftedgeinsider.com');
      await page.screenshot({path: 'example.png'});
    
      await browser.close();
    })();
    ```
    
1.  Follow the next steps to find the executable path and then change `executablePath` to point to your installation of Microsoft Edge.  For example, on macOS, the `executablePath` for Microsoft Edge Canary should be set to `/Applications/Microsoft\ Edge\ Canary.app/`.

1.  To find the `executablePath`, a simple manual approach is to go to `edge://version` and copy the **Executable path** on that page.

1.  Or, to programmatically find the executable path, first install the [edge-paths](https://www.npmjs.com/package/edge-paths) package by running one of the following commands:

    ```shell
    npm i edge-paths
    ```
    
    ```shell
    yarn add edge-paths
    ```
    

> 1.  Then, if you're using `edge-paths` to find the executable path, run code like the code sample below, which uses the [edge-paths](https://www.npmjs.com/package/edge-paths) package to programmatically find the path to your installation of Microsoft Edge on your OS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Then, if you're using `edge-paths` to find the executable path, run code like the following sample, which uses the [edge-paths](https://www.npmjs.com/package/edge-paths) package to programmatically find the path to your installation of Microsoft Edge on your OS:
```

    ```javascript
    const edgePaths = require("edge-paths");
    
    const EDGE_PATH = edgePaths.getEdgePath();
    ```
    
1.  Now that you've found the executable path (either manually or programmatically), in `example.js`, set `executablePath: EDGE_PATH`.  Save your changes.

1.  Run `example.js` from the command line:

    ```shell
    node example.js
    ```

    `puppeteer-core` launches Microsoft Edge, goes to `https://www.microsoftedgeinsider.com`, and saves a screenshot of the webpage.  You can customize the screenshot size by calling [page.setViewport()](https://pptr.dev/#?product=Puppeteer&version=v2.0.0&show=api-pagesetviewportviewport).

     The following `example.png` file is produced by `example.js`:

     :::image type="content" source="./media/puppeteer-example.png" alt-text="The example.png file produced by example.js." lightbox="./media/puppeteer-example.png":::

> The above example demonstrates basic automation and testing scenarios that you can cover by using Puppeteer and `puppeteer-core`.  For more information about Puppeteer and how it works, check out [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preceding example demonstrates basic automation and testing scenarios that you can cover using Puppeteer and `puppeteer-core`.  For more information about Puppeteer and how it works, check out [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev).
```
